Secure Design Article (#192)
cobalthq/cobalt-product-public-docs: content/en/BestPractices/SecureDesign.md

# Prevent Insecure Design # 

# Description #

Insecure design flaws are failures to follow secure design and architecture best practices by the developers, starting from the planning phase of the application. This is a broad category representing different security weaknesses collectively known as insecure design.

# Examples #
Let’s explore some examples of Insecure Design

## Scenario 1 ##

**Overly Permissive Application Database User**

The application database user has the privileges of the database administrator. An attacker exploiting an SQL injection vulnerability in the application can get access to the complete database. Moreover, the privilege allows the attacker to run operating system commands, which could lead to server compromise. 
  

> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Author: @mjang-cobalt  The idea presented here is about the application database user(not the overall database design) which connects to the only application database via application code, for example, the below connection strings in (.NET), the user `sa` has the highest privileges in the database(`sa` user in MSSQL is admin always).  In a secure design scenario, developers can create a different user in the database which has access to only an application's database.

````
<configuration>  
<connectionstrings>    
<add name="myConnectionString" connectionstring="Data Source=YourSqlServerInstanceName;Initial Catalog=DataBaseName;User ID=sa;Password=PasswordForSqlServer;" providername="System.Data.SqlClient"></add>  
</connectionstrings>
</configuration>

````
But here what I want to show is not about secure implementation,  there is a difference between secure implementation and secure design. The-  [A4 Secure Design](https://owasp.org/Top10/A04_2021-Insecure_Design/) is all about identifying the risk early in the development cycle and planning this in advance. 
Here what I want to show is developers have failed to anticipate the risk of using admin database users in the application because of which SQL injection compromised the full database and eventually the server, which ideally could have been contained only to the application database. 

Please let me know your thoughts.

> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Reviewer: @shadixit , thanks for your feedback. It sounds like you want to expand on the concept of `least privilege`. I now realize that you mentioned `least privileges` in your original draft, and I apologize for ignoring that.

Also, I'm now thinking that your target reader is the developer architect, the person who can plan and implement "Secure Design". (And I think most developers who want to advance in their careers want this knowledge.)

If I'm hearing you correctly, you're thinking of the following scenario:

Full database, which consists of
- One or more application databases
- Another database, such as users

With least privilege in secure design, you recommend the following scenario

- Separate administrative users for each database. The architect limits the privileges of each administrative user to a single database. This protects other parts of the full database, as well as the operating system.

I think you can go further, and limit privileges for "regular" database users. But I'm not an expert on database user privileges.

Does this make sense?

> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Reviewer: @shadixit , I've talked this over with Gisela -- she prefers your approach. I need to think about this a bit, how to reword your approach for readability. I'll add more comments "tomorrow" US Pacific Time

> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Author: Hi @mjang-cobalt, Thanks for the comments. I am looking forward to your thoughts.

> ## Scenario 1 ##
> 
> **Overly Permissive Application Database User**
> 
> The application database user has the privileges of the database administrator. An attacker exploiting an SQL injection vulnerability in the application can get access to the complete database. Moreover, the privilege allows the attacker to run operating system commands, which could lead to server compromise. 
>   
> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Reviewer: HI @shadixit inspired by https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#least-privilege, I'm taking your content and emphasizing what's **not** secure design (and what is)

```suggestion
### Scenario 1: Database Users with Too Much Access

On some databases, administrators set up all accounts with administrative privileges. On such systems, attackers who exploit a database system vulnerability can: 

- Access to the complete database.
- Run operating system commands, which could compromise your servers. 

That is not a secure design.

Secure design recommends that you configure least privileges for application database users. To follow best practices for secure design:

- As suggested by the OWASP article on [SQL Injection Prevention](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#least-privilege), "start from the ground up."
  - Start with read-only access. Add privileges only when needed.
  - Limit privileges to SQL accounts to specific databases.

With secure design, you can limit the impact of SQL injection to the privileges of the compromised user 
```

> Secure design recommends the least privileges for application database users. Since the secure design practices were not followed during the planning phase, the application database user was granted the default admin permissions. The impact of SQL injection can be contained if the permissions of database user are restricted.  

Reviewer: I've updated the suggestion accordingly.

## Scenario 2 ##

**Missing Access Control**

An access control issue was found in the production application, where the attacker was able to access the superadmin dashboard and get access to the data of other users. The superadmin dashboard URL was guessed by the attacker, and due to missing access control, it granted full access to the superadmin account. 

> A detailed threat modelling could have pointed out this scenario where an application user could access superadmin account. The threat model could also have recommended the developers implement strong access control, separating superadmin area of the application from the user side. 

Author: @mjang-cobalt here, this looks fine.

> ## Scenario 3 ##
> 
> **Missing Rate Limiting**
> 
> Missing rate limiting in the coupon code in an eCommerce website leads to bots trying to bruteforce the coupon codes, attracting unnecessary traffic which leads to performance issues. 
> 
> Since this was not anticipated during the design phase, there wasn’t any preventive control to avoid this. A secure design with an application firewall to protect any bot activity and a lockout mechanism could have avoided this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scenario 3: Missing Rate Limits

In eCommerce, it's common to set up coupon codes. If you forget to include rate limits, you may see problems, including:

- Bots which try to brute force coupon codes
- Extra traffic, which can lead to performance issues

If you follow secure design practices, you could have planned:

- An application firewall to protect your system from bots and excessive traffic
- A lockout mechanism
- Access through a service like CloudFlare, which also sets rate limits
```

Author: @mjang-cobalt  this also looks fine.

> # Prevention #
> 
> To avoid insecure design flaws, you must:
> 
> - Collect security requirements along with business requirements, ensure sufficient resources and efforts to implement security controls as well. 
> 
> - Document abuse cases along with use cases while creating user stories. Bring security concerns during the discussions in developer meetings.
> 
> - Conduct threat modelling exercises. Dissect different functionalities and use case stories to arrive at possible threats and vulnerabilities. Take the help of security experts to enumerate threats. Create a mitigation strategy to handle possible attack scenarios.
> 
> - Conduct secure design and architecture reviews along with the security team. This highlights flaws in existing architecture and proposes solutions to create a robust design. 
> 
> - Create feedback loops, vulnerabilities identified later during the testing phase or in the production environment can help to revise threat models over time. 
> 
> - Establish a secure development lifecycle with the help of security teams. Introduce secure design principles and security checks early in the development lifecycle. 
> 
> - You can also follow [OpenSAMM](https://www.opensamm.org/) framework, an open-source framework for implementing a strategy for software security. This model can be applied organization-wide, for a single line of business, or even for an individual project and for any style of development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prevention

To follow best practices for secure design, you should: 

- Collect security requirements
- Collect business requirements
- Budget resources needed to create and manage security requirements 
- For each feature, document use cases as well as abuse cases when you create user stories. 
- Highlight security concerns with other developers.
- Conduct threat modeling exercises.
 - Create a mitigation strategy to handle possible attack scenarios.
- Conduct secure design and architecture reviews, to highlight:
   - Flaws in existing architecture 
    - Enable solutions to create a robust design. 
- Create feedback loops for vulnerabilities identified:
   - During the testing
   - In the production environment 

These feedback loops can help to revise threat models over time. 

- You can also follow the open source [OpenSAMM](https://www.opensamm.org/) framework to create a software security strategy. 
```
